# Data Structures & Algorithms Series
In order to challenge myself and prepare for technical interviews, I decided to start this drill where I solve data structures & algorithms challenges. Questions are asked by top tech companies in the world

## 1. Reverse String
This question is asked by Google. Given a string, reverse all of its characters and return the resulting string.

Example: Given the following strings...

```bash
"Cat", return "taC"
"The Daily Byte", return "etyB yliaD ehT"
"civic", return "civic"
```

## 2. Valid Palindrome
This question is asked by Facebook. Given a string, return whether or not it forms a palindrome ignoring case and non-alphabetical characters.

Example: Given the following strings...

```bash
"level", return true
"algorithm", return false
"A man, a plan, a canal: Panama.", return true
```

## 3. Vacuum Cleaner Route
This question is asked by Amazon. Given a string representing the sequence of moves a robot vacuum makes, return whether or not it will return to its original position. The string will only contain ```L```, ```R```, ```U``` and ```D``` characters, representing left, right, up and down respectively.

Example: Given the following strings...

```bash
"LR", return true
"URURD", return false
"RUULLDRD", return true
```

## 4. Two Sum
This question is asked by Google. Given an array of integers, return whether or not two numbers sum to a given target, ```k```.

_Note: You may not sum a number with itself._

Example: Given the following arrays of integers...

```bash
"[1, 3, 8, 2], k = 10", return true
"[3, 9, 13, 7], k = 8", return false
"[4, 2, 6, 5, 2], k = 4", return true
```

## 5. Add Binary
This question is asked by Apple. Given two binary strings (strings containing only 1s and 0s), return their sum (also as a binary string).

_Note: Neither binary string will contain leading 0s unless the string itself is 0._

Example: Given the following binary strings...

```bash
"100" + "1", return "101"
"11" + "1", return "100"
"1" + "0", return  "1"
```

## 6. Validate Characters
This question is asked by Google.  Given a string only containing the following characters ```(```, ```)```, ```{```, ```}```, ```[``` and ```]```, return whether or not the opening and closing characters are in a valid order.

Example: Given the following strings...

```bash
"(){}[]", return true
"(({[]}))", return true
"{(})", return  false
```

## 7. Valid Anagram
This question is asked by Facebook. Given two strings ```s``` and ```t```, return whether or not ```s``` is an anagram of ```t```.

Example: Given the following strings...

```bash
s = "cat", t = "tac", return true
s = "listen", t = "silent", return true
s = "program", t = "function", return false
```

## 8. Longest Common Prefix
This question is asked by Microsoft. Given an array of strings, return the longest common prefix that is shared amongst all strings.

_Note: You may assume all strings only contain lowercase alphabetical characters._

Example: Given the following arrays...

```bash
["colorado", "color", "cold"], return "col"
["a", "b", "c"], return ""
["spot", "spotty", "spotted"], return "spot"
```

## 9. Jewels and Stones
This question is asked by Amazon. Given a string representing your stones and another string representing a list of jewels, return the number of stones that you have that are also jewels.

Example: Given the following jewels and stones...

```bash
jewels = "abc", stones = "ac", return 2
jewels = "Af", stones = "AaaddfFf", return 3
jewels = "AYOPD", stones = "ayopd", return 0
```

## 10. Valid Palindrome with Removal
This question is asked by Facebook. Given a string and the ability to delete at most one character, return whether or not it can form a palindrome.

Example: Given the following strings...

```bash
"abcba", return true
"foobof", return true (remove the first 'o', the second 'o', or 'b')
"abccab", return false
```

## 11. Intersection of Numbers
This question is asked by Google. Given two integer arrays, return their intersection.

_Note: The intersection is the set of elements that are common to both arrays._

Example: Given the following arrays...
```bash
nums1 = [2, 4, 4, 2], nums2 = [2, 4], return [2, 4]
nums1 = [1, 2, 3, 3], nums2 = [3, 3], return [3, 3]
nums1 = [2, 4, 6, 8], nums2 = [1, 3, 5, 7], return []
```

## 12. Spot the Difference
This question is asked by Google. You are given two strings, ```s``` and ```t``` which only consist of lowercase letters. ```t``` is generated by shuffling the letters in ```s``` as well as potentially adding an additional random character. Return the letter that was randomly added to ```t``` if it exists, otherwise, return ```' '```.

_Note: You may assume that at most one additional character can be added to ```t```._

Example: Given the following strings...
```bash
s = "foobar", t = "barfoot", return 't'
s = "ide", t = "idea", return 'a'
s = "coding", t "ingcod", return ''
```

## 13. First Unique Character
This question is asked by Microsoft. Given a string, return the index of its first unique character. If a unique character does not exist, return ```-1```.

Example: Given the following strings...
```bash
"abcabd", return 2
"thedailybyte", return 1
"developer", return 0
```

## 14. Uncommon Words
This question is asked by Amazon. Given two strings representing sentences, return the words that are not common to both strings (i.e. the words that only appear in one of the sentences). You may assume that each sentence is a sequence of words (without punctuation) correctly separated using space characters.

Example: Given the following strings...
```bash
sentence1 = "the quick", sentence2 = "brown fox", return ["the", "quick", "brown", "fox"]
sentence1 = "the tortoise beat the haire", sentence2 = "the tortoise lost to the haire", return ["beat", "to", "lost"]
sentence1 = "copper coffee pot", sentence2 = "hot coffee pot", return ["copper", "hot"]
```

## 15. Merge Linked Lists
This question is asked by Apple. Given two sorted linked lists, merge them together in ascending order and return a reference to the merged list

Example: Given the following lists...
```bash
list1 = 1->2->3, list2 = 4->5->6->null, return 1->2->3->4->5->6->null
list1 = 1->3->5, list2 = 2->4->6->null, return 1->2->3->4->5->6->null
list1 = 4->4->7, list2 = 1->5->6->null, return 1->4->4->5->6->7->null
```
